# Interactive Chessboard with Legal Moves

## Intro
Learning how to play chess is complicated and challenging for many newcomers. Oftentimes, players who recently started practicing find it hard to remember the legal moves for each piece type. We set out to solve this problem by creating an interactive chessboard that registers the piece which the player picks up and displays possible movements. Our original design incorporated a total of 64 circuits, one installed under each tile. Each circuit was cut using a header male/female header design. The male header end was placed in the middle of each tile, so that its two pins would protrude the tile. We incorporated the female header in the chess pieces. Therefore, when the piece was placed on a tile, the circuit was completed, sending a high signal. The 8 signals from the tiles of each row were collected by a shift register and sent to the Arduino serial monitor for monitoring. Our Arduino code read the array of 64 signals by the serial monitor and tracked when there were changes in the string to detect which piece was picked up. Using dedicated functions for each piece type, our code generates the possible moves for each piece and uses the FastLED Arduino library to light up the corresponding LEDs placed under the legal move tiles. When the piece is placed on a tile again, the code refreshes the board so that the next move is possible. Unfortunately, our shift registers proved to be unreliable, and we pivoted to a second design concept. We wrote code to generate a text-based chessboard that showed up on the serial monitor and allowed the user to register their moves. The chessboard representation refreshes and displays the possible moves, while the corresponding LEDs placed under the legal move tiles lit up. Once the tile that the user wants to place the piece on is registered, the board refreshes once more so that the next move is possible.
